README.md, before:

# Cars REST API

## Description:
It's a simple cars REST API that allows to:
- display list of cars with their make, model and average rating
- display list of the most popular cars with number of rating for each car
- add a new car to the database with validating if this car exist in external API database (https://vpic.nhtsa.dot.gov/api/)
- add a rate for each car (for simplicity, the user can add multiple ratings to each car)

## Technologies and libraries:
- Python 3.10.2
- Django 4.0.1
- Django Rest Framework 3.13.1
- requests 2.27.1
- python-decouple 3.5

## Installation:
##### 1. Clone repository:
```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/adm108/CarsRESTAPI.git
```
##### 2. Go to CarsRESTAPI folder, create virtual enviroment and activate it:
```sh
$ cd CarsRESTAPI
$ python -m venv venv (if you work on Windows system)
```
##### 3. Install all packages from requirements.txt file:
```sh
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```
##### 5. Paste SECRET KEY in settings.py file, comment previous variable:
![alt text](pictures/secretkey.png)
##### 4. Go to carsrestapi folder and use manage.py to enter following commands. Generate SQL commands:
```sh
$ python manage.py makemigrations
```
##### 5. Execute SQL commands:
```sh
$ python manage.py migrate
```
##### 6. Create superuser (enter email, username and password):
```sh
$ python manage.py createsuperuser
```
##### 7. Add some example data via shell - go to shell via terminal, copy prepared data (available below) and paste it:
```sh
$ python manage.py shell
```
```sh
from cars.models import Car, Rating

car_1 = Car(make="Audi", model="A6")
car_2 = Car(make="BMW", model="X5")
car_3 = Car(make="Volkswagen", model="Passat")
car_4 = Car(make="Porsche", model="Cayenne")
car_5 = Car(make="Fiat", model="Ducato")

car_1.save()
car_2.save()
car_3.save()
car_4.save()
car_5.save()

rate_1 = Rating(car_id=car_1, rate=4)
rate_2 = Rating(car_id=car_1, rate=4)
rate_3 = Rating(car_id=car_1, rate=5)
rate_4 = Rating(car_id=car_2, rate=5)
rate_5 = Rating(car_id=car_2, rate=5)
rate_6 = Rating(car_id=car_2, rate=5)
rate_7 = Rating(car_id=car_1, rate=4)
rate_8 = Rating(car_id=car_3, rate=1)
rate_9 = Rating(car_id=car_3, rate=3)
rate_10 = Rating(car_id=car_4, rate=5)
rate_11 = Rating(car_id=car_4, rate=4)
rate_12 = Rating(car_id=car_4, rate=5)
rate_13 = Rating(car_id=car_4, rate=5)
rate_14 = Rating(car_id=car_4, rate=5)

rate_1.save()
rate_2.save()
rate_3.save()
rate_4.save()
rate_5.save()
rate_6.save()
rate_7.save()
rate_8.save()
rate_9.save()
rate_10.save()
rate_11.save()
rate_12.save()
rate_13.save()
rate_14.save()
```
##### 8. Run your local server:
```sh
$ python manage.py runserver
```
##### 9. Now you can test my app locally! It is available on pythonanywhere site also:
http://adm92.pythonanywhere.com/

Commit message:

adding some tests to my app

README.md, after:

# Cars REST API

## Description:
It's a simple cars REST API that allows to:
- display list of cars with their make, model and average rating
- display list of the most popular cars with number of rating for each car
- add a new car to the database with validating if this car exist in external API database (https://vpic.nhtsa.dot.gov/api/)
- add a rate for each car (for simplicity, the user can add multiple ratings to each car)

## Technologies and libraries:
- Python 3.10.2
- Django 4.0.1
- Django Rest Framework 3.13.1
- requests 2.27.1
- python-decouple 3.5

## Installation:
##### 1. Clone repository:
```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/adm108/CarsRESTAPI.git
```
##### 2. Go to CarsRESTAPI folder, create virtual enviroment and activate it:
```sh
$ cd CarsRESTAPI
$ python -m venv venv (if you work on Windows system)
```
##### 3. Install all packages from requirements.txt file:
```sh
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```
##### 5. Paste SECRET KEY in settings.py file, comment previous variable:
![alt text](pictures/secretkey.png)
##### 4. Go to carsrestapi folder and use manage.py to enter following commands. Generate SQL commands:
```sh
$ python manage.py makemigrations
```
##### 5. Execute SQL commands:
```sh
$ python manage.py migrate
```
##### 6. Create superuser (enter email, username and password):
```sh
$ python manage.py createsuperuser
```
##### 7. Add some example data via shell - go to shell via terminal, copy prepared data (available below) and paste it:
```sh
$ python manage.py shell
```
```sh
from cars.models import Car, Rating

car_1 = Car(make="Audi", model="A6")
car_2 = Car(make="BMW", model="X5")
car_3 = Car(make="Volkswagen", model="Passat")
car_4 = Car(make="Porsche", model="Cayenne")
car_5 = Car(make="Fiat", model="Ducato")

car_1.save()
car_2.save()
car_3.save()
car_4.save()
car_5.save()

rate_1 = Rating(car_id=car_1, rate=4)
rate_2 = Rating(car_id=car_1, rate=4)
rate_3 = Rating(car_id=car_1, rate=5)
rate_4 = Rating(car_id=car_2, rate=5)
rate_5 = Rating(car_id=car_2, rate=5)
rate_6 = Rating(car_id=car_2, rate=5)
rate_7 = Rating(car_id=car_1, rate=4)
rate_8 = Rating(car_id=car_3, rate=1)
rate_9 = Rating(car_id=car_3, rate=3)
rate_10 = Rating(car_id=car_4, rate=5)
rate_11 = Rating(car_id=car_4, rate=4)
rate_12 = Rating(car_id=car_4, rate=5)
rate_13 = Rating(car_id=car_4, rate=5)
rate_14 = Rating(car_id=car_4, rate=5)

rate_1.save()
rate_2.save()
rate_3.save()
rate_4.save()
rate_5.save()
rate_6.save()
rate_7.save()
rate_8.save()
rate_9.save()
rate_10.save()
rate_11.save()
rate_12.save()
rate_13.save()
rate_14.save()
```
##### 8. Run your local server:
```sh
$ python manage.py runserver
```
##### 9. You can trun on basic tests of my cars API (GET cars and popular cars, POST car and rate). Remember to collect data from point no. 7 to your database before running tests:
```sh
$ python manage.py test
```
##### 10. Now you can test my app locally! It is available on pythonanywhere site also:
http://adm92.pythonanywhere.com/
